# Find Shortest Paths of Maze

# PLEASE READ THIS ENTIRE FILE BEFORE STARTING

Learning Goals
==============

* Understand how to traverse a maze

Find Shortest Paths in a Maze
=============================

This assignment gives a map of a maze as input. The map is a rectangle of
"cells" (or grids). Each cell is either a wall (expressed by `b` as
brick) or a passage way (expressed by space ` `). This assignment asks
you to write a program that marks *every* reachable cell by the
**shortest distance** from the starting point (expressed by `s`).

Algorithm to Find Shortest Paths
================================

Please design your own algorithm to find the shortest path. To
encourage you to think of an algorithm, this assignment does not
specify the algorithm you need to use.

Two commonly used algorithms are *depth first with back tracking* and
*breadth first*. From the starting point, mark it zero. Then:

- *Depth First*: If a cell is open, visit that cell, and keep going as far as
  possible. Add one to the distance whenever moving to the next
  cell. When it is no longer possible to move forward, **go back to the
  last intersection and take a different direction**. If a cell is
  visited multiple times, keep the shortest distance. Hint: use
  the call stack to store which cells have been visited and the
  distances to the starting point.

- *Breadth First*: Mark all reachable cells the same distance (this cell's distance +
  1). Store these cells in a list.  Pick one from the list and
  continue until no cell is added.


Maze Generator
==============

This assignment uses the maze generator from "Killer Game Programming
in Java" by Andrew Davison, O'Reilly, May 2005. The original program
is provided (unchanged) in the `MazeGen/` directory.

This assignment makes a few minor changes to the maze generated by the
original maze generator:

* replace wall character from `c` to `b`
* remove the empty lines at the top, bottom, left, and right
* (randomly) remove a few bricks so that some mazes have multiple paths from
  the source to the exit

You may inspect the `MazeGen/` directory if you wish and/or use it 
to generate your own mazes. However, this is not required for this assignment.

Assumptions about Valid Mazes
=============================

A valid maze should meet the following conditions. Only valid mazes
are used for testing your program. Your program does not have to check
whether an input maze is valid or not.

* There is one and only one exit at a space (` `) on the top row.

* The maze is fully enclosed by bricks, except the only exit. 

* The starting point is marked one and only one `s`.

* It is possible that some cells are not reachable. It is also
  possible that some cells may be reached by different routes.

Your Program's Input
====================

You program will take 1 argument as input:

* `argv[1]` is the name of the input file

`argv[1]` is a file that contains a maze. The text file 
will contain the following characters: `b`, `s`, and ` `. 
The `s` signifies the point at which you should start.
The `b` signifies a wall. The ` ` signifies an open space.
The maze need not be a square. 
It can take any rectangular shape.

Output Format
=============

Your output should be the number of steps required to reach each cell from the starting point `s`. 
Output should be printed to `stdout` with `printf()`. Your output should match the ones in the expected files. Some key notes:

* Walls (`b`) should have value -1
* Start (`s`) should have value 0, as it requires 0 steps to get to that
  location
* Open spaces (` `) that cannot be reached from the starting point `s`
  should have value `width * height + 1`, which is
  the theoretical maximum amount of steps to reach a cell.

Submission
==========

You have to modify `main.c` and `maze.c`. We recommend using `maze.h` as well, but you may 
leave it blank if you wish. **Even if you don't use `maze.h`, you should still submit it to gradescope.**

Upload code to your repository.

Advice
======
As you may notice, we do not provide you with any starter code nor do we provide 
a `Makefile`. Because this is an assignment later in the semester, we expect you to
be able to write your own `Makefile` and `main` function to test your code. Before 
you start coding, take a moment to think about how you will structure your code.
What functions will you need? What will the main function look like? Consider 
the input you are receiving and the output you are expected to produce. Look at 
things at a high level before diving into the weeds of the code.

Autograder Notes
================

Please submit the following files to gradescope:
* `main.c`
* `maze.c`
* `maze.h`
